---
layout: post
title:  "2018"
date:   2018-01-01 01:45:00
categories: [me]
---

When I flew into LAX this morning, I peered out my small oblong window as the plane banked to make a right-turn, and I observed the sprawling urban city from above. The view from above is always breathtaking; it's the reason why I love flying whenever I get the chance. Today's view of Los Angeles, however, was slightly fogged over by pollution.

Just south of Downtown, the University of Southern California's campus stuck out more or less like an island of cardinal brick in a mostly flat, colorless, and dingy neighborhood. I had mixed feelings about this sight: there was my excitement to return to school, but also my skepticism towards the newly built USC Village and the high-end coffee shop, yoga studio, pedicure studio, and expensive restaurants it brought along into a chronically low-income neighborhood. The expansion project created lots of enjoyable amenities for new and current students, but as nice as they are, these new developments feel more like distractions.

The glamorized collegiate gothic style has an anesthetic effect: it's a comforting sight because it's familiar and exactly what anyone expects a prestigious university to look like (which is precisely USC President Nikias's intention). Except, the buildings erected in the Village aren't learning centers, they're high-end apartment complexes with high-end storefronts. The Village is designed to enchant students, alumni, and donors taking a stroll within this island of wealth and academic prestige (in appearance), and distract them from the rest of the neighborhood, which has an unfortunate reputation of "danger" and homelessness. These new buildings are relevant for only one reason: they represent the progression of gentrification and increasing wealth gaps in large urban cities across the United States, along with the self-destructive and superficial political climate that is currently exacerbating these problems.

Exactly one year ago, the countdown to 2017 felt comparable to the precipitous climb up a croaking, battered rollercoaster ride's first slope. As bizarre as our new-world politics came to be—both domestic and overseas—the world watched with jeering eyes (as if we aren't totally ashamed) as history repeats itself. Even so, the more privileged lifestyles led in sun-glazed Southern California felt largely unchanged, except for the continued rising cost of living and the ever-increasing rates of traffic congestion.

As every new day passes, dysfunctional countries around the world are still committing atrocities; political provocations between "functional" states are reopening wounds that we thought were stitched, sewn, and stapled since World War II ended and the Cold War had dissipated; nationalism and populism have been dangerously winning democratic elections across the globe all year; our environment continues to descend towards a whimpering death, with minimal efforts shown by global political leaders towards slowing the degradation.

But life in Los Angeles is still the same: in our spare time we watch new TV shows, we contemplate upgrading to the newest iPhone models, and we toss paper cups from Starbucks on our morning commutes to class and work. Of course, we feel disenfranchised, and we are constantly talking about the sensational news pieces, but most of us don't know where the nearest polling booths are located, and we also don't have time to find out.

Since the Women's March, I still had hoped that a radical change was somehow around the corner in 2017. Every day was a breaking news day. The mechanics of how Russia upended America's democratic process eventually revealed itself. The repeal of affordable healthcare was shot down despite numerous efforts. America's attitude towards sexual assault has finally shifted from a culture of secrecy to open condemnation. Americans are, day after day, resisting authority via our protected free speech rights. But a year later, Trump is still president, Woody Allen is still revered, nuclear weapons are still being caressed by illiterates, and guns are still way too easy to obtain in America. Yesterday we were frightened by the Las Vegas Shooting, but today we've all but forgotten it. Californians now have legal weed, but what else?

Today's higher education is the mechanism by which most people around the world hope to achieve the American Dream. However, just as high school students in America have horribly distorted the concept of standardized testing as a ticket to higher education, university students are distorting the concept of career and opportunity as a ticket to wealth, happiness, and status. We constantly seek distraction from television, smartphone apps, and red bricks in South Central, perhaps because we don't want to admit to all the unsolved problems in the world. For all of us who were born with certain privileges, perhaps we don't deserve them as much as we think we do. We can't wait or hope for world issues to blow over. If Trump did anything in the past year, he revealed how easily people in America are distracted.

Perhaps I should have written a more positive, uplifting essay, and encouraged everyone to continue to strive towards their personal goals in 2018. But as students, we also need to reorient how we think about our participation in this destabilizing global climate. Perhaps we can't affect immediate change, but we aren't totally powerless either.
